Welcome to the Introduction to machine learning lesson!

Thanks to machine learning, exciting changes are happening across all areas of society, including:

Recent advancements in industries such as autonomous vehicles.
Accurate and rapid translation of the text into hundreds of languages.
AI assistants you might find in your home.
Worker safety improvements.
Quicker pharmaceutical design and development.
Machine learning is a complex subject area. Our goal in this lesson is to introduce you to some of the most common terms and ideas used in machine learning. We will then walk you through the different steps involved in machine learning and finish with a series of examples that use machine learning to solve real-world situations.

Let's look at the outline for this lesson.

https://youtu.be/lutsouJpr7E


This lesson is divided into the following sections:

First, we'll discuss what machine learning is, common terminology, and the common components involved in creating a machine learning project.
Next, we'll step into the shoes of a machine learning practitioner. Machine learning involves using trained models to generate predictions and detect patterns from data. To gain a better understanding, we'll break down the different steps involved and examine a common process that applies to the majority of machine learning projects.
Finally, we'll use the steps that we described and take you through three real-life scenarios that might be faced by machine learning practitioners.

https://youtu.be/6jOCiXdcg-w

Machine learning is a new field created at the intersection of statistics, applied math, and computer science. 
Because of the rapid and recent growth of machine learning, each of these fields might use slightly different formal definitions of the same terms.

Terminology
Machine learning, or ML, is a modern software development technique that enables computers to solve problems by using examples of real-world data.

In supervised learning, every training sample from the dataset has a corresponding label or output value 
associated with it. As a result, the algorithm learns to predict labels or output values.

In reinforcement learning, the algorithm figures out which actions to take in a situation to 
maximize a reward (in the form of a number) on the way to reaching a specific goal.

In unsupervised learning, there are no labels for the training data. A machine learning algorithm tries to learn 
the underlying patterns or distributions that govern the data.


After finishing this lesson, you will have been introduced to the key terms and the most common techniques used to solve problems in machine learning.

A model is an extremely generic program, made specific by the data used to train it.
Model training algorithms work through an interactive process where the current model iteration is analyzed 
to determine what changes can be made to get closer to the goal. Those changes are made and the iteration continues until the model is evaluated to meet the goals.
Model inference is when the trained model is used to generate predictions.


you learned about labeled data versus unlabeled data, and how that plays a role in defining the machine learning task you are going to use. Furthermore, you started to explore which machine learning tasks are used to solve certain kinds of machine learning problems.
Here’s a quick recap of the terms introduced in this lesson:

Clustering is an unsupervised learning task that helps to determine if there are any naturally occurring groupings in the data.
A categorical label has a discrete set of possible values, such as "is a cat" and "is not a cat."
A continuous (regression) label does not have a discrete set of possible values, which means there are potentially an unlimited number of possibilities.
Discrete is a term taken from statistics referring to an outcome that takes only a finite number of values (such as days of the week).
A label refers to data that already contains the solution.
Using unlabeled data means you don't need to provide the model with any kind of label or solution while the model is being trained.
